Okay, so after we get done with putting
our education on, now that's when we
start putting our projects that you
following along on the resume template.
Now, we start putting our achievements,
our projects.
No, I think there's a languages
component as well, right?
So here we have this, we have our skills.
So this is where keywords play again,
right?
You have your native
programming language and
then you have what you're also
getting with technical writing, right?
This is where you want to put those
keywords in if in case you have to
be that person to put all
the different keywords in.
You wanna have different resumes out
here in these streets, that's cool.
And you have a secondary skill.
I always have a secondary skill because
I just feel like that really makes you
stand out.
Secondary skill that isn't as technical
but not technical especially as a junior.
Cuz you need to learn and
writing especially on paper,
that makes it easier for
you to understand things as well as,
is the easiest point of entry for
open source sharing, right?
Or putting or
implementing things open source,
joining an open source project and
like that.
The seniors,
they don't wanna document anything, right?
So the juniors going in,
helping with the documentation, that is
low hanging fruit on helping bolster your
contributions for open source projects.
Which is why I always recommend technical
writing, learning about writing
blog posts, things like that to junior
developers because it's very easy.
The higher people get, the less they wanna
write even though the more they should
be writing, so that is something that you
as a junior should definitely be breaking,
running into.
We also have articles and talks, right?
So this is where I put all of my,
it's kinda like my awards and
achievements area, okay?
So I'm talking about,
here's my articles, here's my talks,
here's everything I've done.
All these are made up.
I had ChatGPT, I said, give me eight
conversations that don't exist,
blog posts that don't exist and
this is it.
I don't even know what Passport.JS is,
don't ask me, I wouldn't know.
I said we've talked about
the education component.
You see I have
a Software Engineering Bootcamp.
I have the bootcamp provider, the city,
country, what you complete it,
and those are the type of
bullets that I have for this.
Where I'm saying, where I gained, what
I developed, how I collaborate it, what
did I explore, what did I participate in,
especially if you're in a modern bootcamp.
Participating in code reviews
is very important, right?
They should be having you do that by now.
If you're not, and you're looking for that
experience, you shouldn't be having people
review your code as a part of process and
learning how to code.
Interviewing your colleagues,
your friends, right?
That's something that if you're not doing
right now, you can add this to your resume
and then start doing it immediately and
just hey, can you review my code?
That's a great way to network, right?
Hey, I respect going into somebody
that you follow on Twitter.
I respect your opinion.
I would like it if I could
have you review my code.
Can I give you access to a PR and
have you as an assignee?
It's simple, no one says, you respect me?
Sure, I'll do this.
Let me, I got 10 minutes.
It's cool, I'll do this over lunch.
It's all right, and then they telling
their friends, they're like, yo,
this person hit me up on Twitter and
asked me to review their code, yo.
Cuz I'm big brain, you little brain,
it's cool cuz that's what programmers,
they talk smack to each other.
>> How about writing skills colon and
then list of skills like JavaScript,
HTML, CSS, TypeScript,
Python, C++ and common node.
>> Essentially just a skill,
where it lists on here, I've seen it.
I'm against it cuz I want the language
to flow in resumes, right?
I want to write a resume as
if I'm speaking to a human.
So having human centric language,
it matters to me because I know that
eventually a human's gonna see this.
And I don't want to just have a bunch of,
here's the skills I did, but no,
I'm proficient in this.
I've used this in these type of projects,
right?
I want to make sure that I am
showing the how and the why.
And not just, yeah, I'm proficient
at HTML, and that's a skill of mine.
And I don't even know,
I'm not gonna tell you why.
>> So it might help with the ATS and
the key word thing but
it might be a turn off for a human reader
when it gets past that first level?
>> Absolutely, but also the ATS's
are trained on LLM 's now, right?
So for LLM means Large Language Model, so
its looking at it from
a human centric level, right?
So if you just have the skills out
there just spewed out like that,
what's gonna happen is, it's also looking
for the how and the whys, looking for
the structure coming from that, right?
So you have to think about that.
Well, everybody's adding
LLMs to their processes now.
You just assume that the thing that
you're about to use has ChatGPT,
OpenAI competitor baked
into it because that's what
everybody's doing right now as we speak.
Its kinda like the MSBuild is going on
right now, by the end of this workshop and
by the time this gets on air, half of Edge
is gonna be like ChatGPT and Open AI.
So it's gonna be, it's a crazy,
wild new world out there.
So just assume that it's
gonna be human centric,
large language models baked
into these ATS systems.
And 10 points for
bringing up ATS system on in here.
Most of times I bring that up and the
people just, the eyes glaze, you just use
it, you're like, what, no I don't wanna
talk about the hard stuff anymore.
Yeah, bro in here,
at the very tail of my education.
I'm very happy I did this cuz I was
literally thinking about certifications.
Someone asked me about certifications,
this is exactly what I would
do with a certification.
And these are the types of certifications
that I will look for, AWS,
Google Cloud Platform,
we're talking about cloud computing.
This is what I would do.
This is how I would do it because that's
the only certification that I recommend
being put on your resume.
Those that are in correlation with
direct company toolings, right?
So Cloudflare,
Google Cloud Platform, AWS, Azure,
those, they get my blessing.
Some random web development certificate
from, I don't know, Udemy or something.
Not hating, but don't put it on there.
So, yes.
>> I just wanna echo your secondary
skill on technical writing and
how you put that there.
I think that's incredibly important.
And if you can learn a concept and
then communicate your understanding,
even if there's a million blog
articles about the same thing.
But if you put it up on dev.to or
a Hashnode or something like that,
I guarantee employers are gonna see
that and see that you can actually take
a technical concept and understand it and
then also communicate it.
>> Yes sir.
>> On LinkedIn if I have certifications
from Udemy and stuff like that, should I
remove those, are those making me look?
>> No, let's see LinkedIn.
Here's a secret that I probably,
I'm not gonna get fired cuz they
don't pay me so but [LAUGH].
So, I have this term I've been using for
a few years called LinkedIn
engine optimization, right?
So I treat LinkedIn like its
own search system, right,
like I would treat Google,
Bing, any of that.
Now what I have noticed in my
experience with LinkedIn is that when
the certifications come from LinkedIn,
your rankings on jobs get higher.
The opportunities go faster
versus the certifications
that don't correlate with LinkedIn.
I've done this myself cuz I
have access to it through as
a veteran where I would
intentionally go and
get certifications from
the LinkedIn Learning courses,
put them on my LinkedIn just to see the
job opportunities raised significantly and
jet the opportunities that are being
approached to me differently, right?
So, certifications on LinkedIn,
I'm not gonna say no.
I am gonna say, if you are gonna
put certifications on LinkedIn,
I would recommend you actually use
LinkedIn Learning certifications for
those, just because it's going to
help you rank higher in their system.